---
title: "PXE Boot DBAN"
cover: "https://unsplash.it/1152/300/?random?BirchintheRoses"
date: "2013/06/04"
category: "tech"
tags:
    - freenas
    - ubuntu
---

At the university I work for (University of Wisconsin - Madison, go Badgers!), we make sure to DBAN all of our machines before they are sold off for security reasons. DBAN, or Darik's Boot And Nuke, is a bootable harddrive wiping utility that writes over disks multiple times in order to make sure even the most sophisticated hardware cannot retrieve information from them.

Note: DBAN only work sfor spinning drives. You should not use this for solid state drives (SSDs).

We used to pull all the machines, put them in a pile, and go to each machine, plugging in a power cable, video cable, boot off a CD, then moving the CD and video
cable to the next one. It took forever and was a pain. So I decided to
make it easy to boot DBAN via PXE. All of our Windows machines reboot
each night, and have PXE set as their first boot device. The night
before we replace machines, I switch them to boot from the DBAN server,
and by the time I get there in the morning, they are finished wiping.

This weekend, a buddy of mine needed to DBAN a huge pile of computers
before donating them to needy people. After replicating the server I
built at the university, we decided I should probably throw up a blog
post about how to do it.

For this machine, I'm going to set up a local switch on a secondary
Ethernet port so I can DBAN machines in my office. We'll need a DHCP
server for the local network, and a TFTP server for both the local
switch and the rest of the network.

To start, I installed Ubuntu 12.04 x64 on a machine. I did the default
install, checking OpenSSH server at the end.

First, let's get the machine up to date, and install the software we
need. We're going to use dnsmasq as our DHCP server (it has a very
simple configuration) and tftpd-hpa for our TFTP server. dnsmasq has a
builtin TFTP server, but as far as I could tell, you can't disable DHCP
and not disable TFTP for an interface. While I'm pretty we have enough
safeguards to prevent a rogue DHCP server from assigning addresses (and
PXE files), I really don't want to be responsible for half our network
getting DBANed.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get -y update && sudo apt-get -y upgrade
    sudo apt-get -y install dnsmasq tftpd-hpa

First, we're going to set up dnsmasq. We're going to make a pool of
addresses for the local network switch on eth1. We're going to set eth1
to a static address. I set my server name to dban-server, but you can
adjust yours accordingly.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces
    --
    # Add this to the bottom of your interfaces file.
    auto eth1
    iface eth1 inet static
    address 10.0.0.1
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    --

    sudo nano /etc/dnsmasq.conf
    ----
    # Add these to the top of the file
    dhcp-range=10.0.0.2,10.0.0.254,6h
    dhcp-boot=pxelinux.0,dban-server,10.0.0.1
    interface=eth1
    --

    # Restart the affected services
    sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
    sudo /etc/init.d/dnsmasq restart

Now, we need to set up tftpd-hpa for both interfaces. I was having
problems with the tftp server starting up on boot. The included upstart
script seemed to start up before networking was ready, and then it would
fail. So we'll fix that up, and the default config file
(/etc/default/tftpd-hpa) will work just fine.

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo nano /etc/init/tftpd-hpa.conf
    --
    # tftp-hpa - trivial ftp server

    description "tftp-hpa server"
    author "Chuck Short <zulcss@ubuntu.com>"

    # Here, we change the upstart script to wait for the interface to be up
    start on (local-filesystems and net-device-up IFACE=eth0)
    # start on runlevel [2345]
    # End changes.
    --
    # Restart the affected daemon
    restart tftpd-hpa

Finally, we need to install the bootable files into /var/lib/tftpboot,
the default place tftpd-hpa looks for PXE files. We'll download DBAN,
extract the files, and put the standard PXE files into the directory to
make booting work.

.. code-block:: bash

    # Download DBAN iso file
    wget -O /tmp/dban.iso http://sourceforge.net/projects/dban/files/dban/dban-2.2.7/dban-2.2.7\_i586.iso/download
    sudo mount -o loop /tmp/dban.iso /mnt
    sudo cp /mnt/\* /var/lib/tftpboot
    cd /var/lib/tftpboot
    # Download the pxelinux.0 file and a default configuration file with a single, default option to boot DBAN and start 'autonuke', which will automatically wipe all attached drives.
    sudo wget http://mirrors.tummy.com/pub/ftp.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/ubuntu-installer/i386/pxelinux.0
    sudo mkdir /var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg
    sudo nano /var/lib/tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg/default
    --
    DEFAULT autonuke

    LABEL autonuke
    KERNEL dban.bzi
    APPEND nuke="dwipe --autonuke" silent
    --

    # Lastly, make sure our clients can read the files.
    sudo chmod -R 755 /var/lib/tftpboot/

There we go. Plug a machine or a switch into a eth1, boot it up, set it
to boot from the network, and the drives will be erased shortly!
